=CURRICULUM NEWSPAPER=

I read internet newspapers all day and glean and cull some cool stories about
--- EVERYTHING.

It is a huge resource for ---- EVERYTHING.

 SHARE WITH YOUR BUDDIES.

MY HOME PAGE HAS LOTS ABOUT "science ed" – and my dinosaur digs in China,
Switzerland, and Montana (TRex discovery)

Home Page: http://www.eiu.edu/~scienced

NEWSPAPERS are –
something everyone likes to read,
non-threatening,
have short articles,
6th grade reading level,
contain data for further research.

It is hard to think of 'the school curriculum' broken into 250 pieces (Files),
but this list of teacher resources is a huge 'newspaper' of events for the past
4 years.

Around 5th grade, pairs of kids could be 'assigned' a File – and report to the
class about the '2 coolest things they found.'

This 'newspaper' is all about developing teachers and children with a passion
for learning and who are curious about everything.

On my computer, this CURRICULUM NEWSPAPER changes every day.

If you are reading this in ... say ... August 2012, and want the "latest"
edition of any File – write me: mailto:mleyden@eiu.edu

New 'Files' (categories) are constantly being added.

==HEAVY FILLOSOFEE==

I would shock students by revealing the fact that THEY WILL NOT BE
TEACHERS.

A person spends about 8% of their life - teaching.
What do you do in the other 92% of your time on earth?

THAT is who 'you are' and you will take THAT persona into the
classroom.

If you are passionate about learning and curious about everything ... guess
what kind of classroom you will have.

I didn't:

* 'hunt' dinosaurs in China & Montana & Switzerland
* autopsy mummies in Chile, etc.

to ‘be a better teacher.

I did those things because I was curious.

How did I get to be a teacher?

I didn’t plan to do any of those things.

I planned to be a boring person – but someone came along and destroyed that
dream.

He was called . . . a teacher.

My bio: http://castle.eiu.edu/~scienced/philosophy/rocky.html

A weird but inspiring story.

Enjoy this fabulous resource and share it with kids, plumbers, mailmen,
neighbors, aunts, nieces, etc.

Keep this – for eons. It will be of interest to 5th graders and those in their
5th year of graduate school.

Enjoy,

cheers,

mike
